Joint American and Israeli strikes on
Iran are expanding into a broader
regional fight. The entire periphery is
now on the verge of a multi-theater war
unlike anything seen in the conflict so
far.
Trump has framed the campaign as a
systematic effort to dismantle Iran's
ability to threaten US interests. He
says the campaign targets Iran's missile
arsenal, naval forces, nuclear program,
and proxy networks, but it may be more
than that.
Explosions have been reported in and
around Tehran, including near the
presidential palace, the supreme
leader's compound, and buildings
belonging to senior Iranian political
and security officials. Thick smoke and
repeated detonations in the capital and
elsewhere were reported by multiple news
outlets as part of the military assault.
And although precise details are still
emerging, several senior officials have
reportedly been killed in these
decapitation strikes, including the
supreme leader himself.
The goal has shifted from keeping Iran
in check to breaking its will. Iran
understands this and sees the fight as
existential, which is why it is now
expanding the battle space.
Hundreds of Iranian missiles and drones
have struck economic and military assets
across multiple Arab states, including
Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain,
Saudi Arabia, Syria, and the UAE. In
fact, Iran has fired roughly as many
missiles at the Arab nations as it has
at Israel in the first wave.
So, both the Americans and Iranians are
climbing the escalation ladder, but for
different reasons. While Trump believes
that Iran won't escalate, [music]
Iran believes that Trump can't sustain
escalation. We're now trapped in that
cycle. Conflicts usually begin with
actions, but they spiral on assumptions.
Today's video is sponsored by Supremacy
World War 3, a free online strategy game
where you choose a real country to lead
into a modern global conflict. Up to 99
other players are moving their units
across the map in real time. So, to win,
you need to form alliances and construct
all types of units, including tanks,
jets, and submarines.
Supremacy World War 3 is a huge game.
The key to victory is to think ahead and
build alliances. What I like most about
the game is that you can play with the
same account on both PC and mobile. That
convenience sets it apart from other
games. Using our link below, you will
get an exclusive gift, an elite railgun,
a brand new unit in the game worth $40.
The offer is only available to new
players for the next 30 days. So, get
started sooner rather than later.
President Trump is confident that he can
contain the political and military
fallout from the strikes on Iran, a
confidence shaped by his past foreign
policy decisions. You see, when the
establishment in Washington warns
against a norm-breaking action, Trump
ignores their advice, goes ahead anyway,
and faces no apparent repercussions.
[music]
Trump first broke with US policy in 2018
when he moved the US Embassy to
Jerusalem.
Critics within the Department of State
predicted massive protests and violence
against US personnel, but that scenario
never came. It was true again in 2020
when Trump ordered the assassination of
Iran's Quds Force Commander, Qassem
Soleimani. Analysts had predicted
massive blowback, but little came of it.
Trump's gamble had paid off, and it paid
off again last June when the US joined
Israel's military campaign against Iran.
At the time,
>> [music]
>> critics had warned Trump that attacking
Iran directly would hasten its nuclear
breakout, but little happened.
This dynamic repeated itself most
recently in January when Trump
intervened in Venezuela and captured
President Maduro. The blowback was
insignificant. [music] Yet again, Trump
was right. Every time he tested the
system, the system absorbed the shock.
It's easy to see why Trump would believe
that warnings about attacking Iran are
overblown and that he can act decisively
once more and walk away unharmed.
However, this time it may be [music]
different. The US has assembled its
largest build-up of air and naval assets
in the region since the 2003 invasion of
Iraq.
Naval forces are operating in both the
Eastern Mediterranean and the Arabian
Sea alongside combat aircraft deployed
across regional bases.
Open-source flight tracking data shows a
sharp rise in US strategic airlifts in
the days leading up to the war with more
than 80 C-17 Globemaster flights
recorded along with a steady flow of
KC-46A Pegasus [music] and KC-135
Stratotanker tanker aircraft moving
along the Atlantic and Mediterranean
corridors. [music]
These assets allow for extended
logistics without relying entirely on
the regional forward bases, particularly
those that sit within range of Iran's
missiles and drones.
More importantly, in the run-up to the
war, there was was influx of advanced
combat aircraft into the region. These
include F-22 Raptors, F-35 Lightning
Mark II's, F-15E Strike Eagles, and F-16
Fighting Falcons.
Trump has also signaled that B-2 stealth
bombers are on standby, the same
aircraft that struck Iran's underground
nuclear facilities in June 2025.
However, this time around, their
deployment will likely depend both on
operational necessity and on the
availability of GBU-57
bunker buster munitions, [music] much of
which was used up during last year's
strikes on Iran. The point is that the
breadth and scale of the military
build-up give Trump far more room to
maneuver than he had last June, and he
appears to be acting on it.
In the opening phase, the US went beyond
striking nuclear and missile facilities.
It targeted broader elements of Iran's
military, security, and political
apparatus, including IRGC
infrastructure. By doing so, by
inflicting steep military and economic
[music] pain, Trump and Netanyahu seek
to push Tehran into sweeping political
concessions, something that amounts
[music] to capitulation.
If that doesn't work, the Americans and
the Israelis may try to build up
domestic pressure against Tehran, either
by fueling public unrest [music]
or widening ethnic fault lines in hopes
that Iran implodes from within.
However, this approach would require a
prolonged and costly commitment, and the
Iranians are betting that Trump lacks
the political capacity to sustain that
level of escalation. All things
considered, the conflict has now reached
the point where escalation stops being
[music] accidental and becomes
deliberate.
Iran knows that it cannot win an
outright war with the United States or
Israel. It simply cannot match the
conventional power, so it has to
retaliate asymmetrically in political
and strategic terms, rather than purely
on military grounds.
In theory, Tehran's most rational course
would be to seek a quick de-escalation,
just as it did with Israel in April and
October of 2024, and again in June 2025.
But Iran faces a completely different
strategic landscape now than it did
then.
Both Washington and Jerusalem
increasingly view Iran as weak and
exposed, a paper tiger, if you will. The
proxy militias that once formed the
backbone of its deterrence have largely
been hollowed out. Its nuclear program
has been damaged, and its air defense
network is in ruins. And so, Iranian
officials have come to believe that
unless they impose substantial costs on
Trump now, they will remain permanently
exposed to further strikes. In a speech
last week, the supreme leader threatened
to sink a US aircraft carrier and shut
down the Strait of Hormuz. The IRGC may
now feel compelled to test those
threats.
But there are other, more attainable
ways to impose asymmetric costs. The
United States has roughly 40,000 troops
positioned across a dozen bases, all
within range of Iranian missiles. From
Tehran's perspective, inflicting
American casualties carries symbolic
weight. Iranian leaders still remember
that in 1983, after the Iran-backed
bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut
killed 241
US personnel, President Reagan
ultimately withdrew American forces from
Lebanon despite earlier vows that the US
would not be driven out by intimidation.
Iran looks to play into that narrative
once again. According to a mid-January
Quinnipiac poll, about 70% of Americans
oppose military intervention in Iran,
including a majority of Republicans. So,
the Iranians figure that if the number
of American deaths piles [music] up,
Trump will struggle to justify a
conflict of his own making. This is the
type of asymmetric response that plays
into Iran's comparative [music]
strengths, rather than just military
gains on the ground.
Another example is the closure of the
Strait of Hormuz. This will disrupt
global oil shipments and push energy
prices higher and ripple through the
global economy. But in the long run, it
will also create immediate political
pressure on Trump at home. Iran's final
asymmetric retaliatory policy, perhaps
its most controversial yet, is to
indirectly steer the lobbying power of
the Arab nations and have them pressure
Trump to bring an end to the war.
Even though the relationships between
Iran and the Gulf Arab states are
stronger now than in the past, Tehran
knows that Gulf leaders carry real
influence with Trump and could appeal to
him to back down if they came under
pressure.
So, that's what Iran is trying to
achieve by targeting economic and
strategic assets in Jordan, Iraq,
Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia,
Syria, and the UAE.
So far, Iran has fired roughly as many
missiles at the Arab nations as it has
at Israel in the first wave. This is
Iran's way of trying to convert Gulf
Arab vulnerability into American
political pressure.
The problem with this course of action
is that it could just as easily backfire
and force the Arab nations to join the
American-Israeli bombing campaign. So,
it's a gamble that could escalate the
war to Iran's disadvantage. Things are
never so bad that they can't get worse.
Remember to play Supremacy World War 3
for free on PC or mobile. Use the link
in the description to claim the railgun
bonus available for the next 30 days.
I've been your host Shirvan from Caspian
Report. If you approve of what we do,
please leave a comment, hit the like
button, and may have share the video. In
any case, thank you for your time and so
on.